since 2008 since the Great Recession the
economy has been highly reliant on low
interest rates all the way down to zero
and yet today we are in the opposite
circumstance what does that mean for
what we just heard from Jerome Powell
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you in today's video I'm
going to break down what's happening
right now as of what Jerome Powell just
said it is extremely important for your
mortgage for all of the debt that's
associ iated with real estate everything
connected with the way that corporations
work today debt is the number one thing
it's all tied to interest rates and all
right now coming to a point in which
it's going to be a precarious couple
months let's begin right here the
inventor of the Market's most famous
recession indicator is confident the
inverted yield curve is accurately
calling a Slowdown in 2024 this is the
guy who made it or the one who who is
let's say famous for it but when we look
at this it is simply one indicator it
happens to be extremely accurate what is
it I've covered this before you probably
know yield curve inversion just think of
it if you've got this you know loan
something like a you know one-year Bond
the government gives this one-year Bond
that's a loan basically an iow you well
if they're going to you know take a risk
of or you the investor take a risk of
one year you would think that would be a
less return than a
30-year right longer time frame of
course so you would get a higher return
on that 30-y year than the one year but
what out what happens when it gets
flipped on its head well of course you
have that problem today when it goes
back on the way up that's when a
recession officially begins this is
historically very accurate and that's
where we are at today dating back the
1968 the indicator's predictive power is
8 for8 with zero false signals zero I've
had some credibility in saying that my
model could be wrong because it's my
model essentially I was saying it might
be possible to dodge a recession but
this was really contingent on the FED
standing down and this is one year ago
so standing down and not hiking rates
any further and that is not what
happened okay so that's where we are
right now this very accurate indication
of a recession happens to be going full
force exactly as planned right now today
and yet you can see that the Federal
Reserve and most economists are
suggesting that there not only will be a
soft Landing there will be no Landing
the economy just kind of just slowed
down a little bit and then boom all the
way back up is that exactly what's going
to happen and is that accurate at all
well you can ask some people and they
would say not even close and then you
ask another group of people and say hey
life has never been better it really
depends on who you ask and of course
where they're from it's important to
note that for a lot of people things are
now unaffordable because of everything
that's been going on the inflation has
been really through the roof so many
people cannot afford their daily bills
so they're saying hey it is already a
recession what's Rome Powell saying well
we're going to get to that looking at
the past rate cut Cycles it's important
to understand where we are in the cycle
so that we know what's coming it's very
you know evident there is always a delay
between when central banks raise
interest rates and when the economy
feels the effects it works that way on
the up and the down and you could see
this just showing us what had happened
previously
what I want to note from this something
really simple and that is what we have
now as opposed to what we had in 2018 is
a little bit different and that is they
increased interest rates from zero to a
maximum of
2.5% today however we have a different
circumstance where we actually got all
the way up to a high of
5.5%
and now we have more of a cushion they
can if essentially you know create more
um in a sense essentially stimulus let's
say that by bringing it all the way from
5.5% down to zero that's more ammunition
than of course if it was
2.5% down to zero they can do more and
they will they will print more they will
reduce interest rates more maybe now is
not another the time we also have to
understand where we are in the timeline
and that is looking at 2024 the market
still as of today as I record this
predicts six Cuts six Cuts or 625 basis
point Cuts before the end of the year I
think that's stretching it
personally but that's the Bel but even
if they were to get a few in maybe it's
three maybe it's four it's five who
knows
interest rates are still elevated
nowhere near the 0% so of course we need
to take that all into the equation it is
very important to know we're not in a
zero interest rate environment today and
unless there's something catastrophic
we're not going there in the next few
months so what does that do for
everything connected with all of this
debt right every Bank every corporation
ation is exposed to what has happened
over the last little while that's why
you have all of these Regional Banks
suffering like never before Fitch the
ratings agency responds to the fomc and
Powell we don't see rate Cuts until June
or July all right so the
fomc apparently they said there was
clearly some push back here against
growing Market expectations of an
imminent rate cut the FED sounds quite
cautious about prematurely reaching the
conclusion that inflation is moving back
towards 2% on a sustainable basis and
wants more time to assess the evidence
with scaned evidence of a Slowdown in
growth a labor market that's quite tight
and elevated wage and services inflation
we don't see rate Cuts coming until June
or July so we've got
several meetings in between now and then
and we need to look at that and start to
address where will the cuts come and
it's not necessarily just a matter of
them actually cutting it's when they
start to say we think we're going to cut
we're probably going to cut it's it's
coming they they always hint at it the
meeting beforehand and then you get some
more information uh one month after a
meeting takes place you get the meeting
minutes and so that is also a important
time as well this usually gives us a
little bit uh of some data that was
going on on the inside so with this
information we know that like it's maybe
not tomorrow but it's coming in the next
few months that's the expectation that's
as of today what happens between now and
then all bets are off J Powell pushes
back on investors bets on imminent rate
Cuts so of course the meeting comes
through and they have to say certain
things and Jerome Powell was saying hey
look we are not ready to cut let's make
that very clear we are not in that
position as of this time so get it out
of your head I mean the guy wanted to
really say that here it is this like
this is the most important thing US
inflation this is according to the
financial times of course is under
control December 2023 annualized PC
inflation for different categories and
various time Horizons you can look at
that they break that down it's all low
they're they're saying it it's all you
know inflation is low so if we can keep
these numbers right now with the way
that they manipulate things then the
Federal Reserve has every reason to cut
interest rates they don't care that you
can't afford food they don't care that
you can't turn the heater on all the
time they don't care the FED doesn't
care the government doesn't care that's
not what we're looking at we got to be
honest about it and and look just like
the mafia there's two sets of books
there's the real stuff and the fake if
you watch the mainstream media you get
the fake if you watch 99% of the
alternative you're going to get what is
considered to be some level of accurate
measurement whether it's the shadow
stats from John Williams whether it's
you know some other ones you'll get that
but we need to know both each and every
single month and then we track and
compare these two why do we want to know
both because the fake stuff that's what
the these businesses Federal Reserve the
big corporations the banks everybody is
moving big moves jobs are associated
with that on the fake stuff keep that in
mind over the coming months I do realize
it is manipulated okay
please Jerome Powell in a sweeping
endorsement of the US economy strength
said on Wednesday that interest rates
had peaked and would move lower in the
coming months with inflation continuing
to fall and an expectation of sustained
job and economic growth achieving what
they love to call the soft Landing all
right so they want to make it very clear
they're starting to flip to the other
side this is Jerome Powell basically
telling everybody we're not there yet
but we're getting there so what can you
take away from this okay so the
expectation is interest rates will go
lower in expecting this investors
businesses and so on that starts to put
kind of a bottom in on the turmoil it
doesn't necessarily do anything for you
when you go to the store and you got to
buy uh groceries and it's ridiculously
expensive it doesn't help you in that
respect but what it does do is you know
in terms of mortgage rates in terms of
some other factors that are going on in
the financial world that kind of bottoms
it out now Banks especially the regional
banks are the ones that are suffering
the most and we have really some time to
see what could happen with them we're
not out of the woods yet so that's
really the biggest issue it's not you at
the grocery store you're going to suffer
those prices won't go down it doesn't
matter if suddenly there's 20% real like
um you know what they would call real
you3 unemployment rate crazy
unemployment are the supermarkets going
to bring the prices down no they're not
going to bring the prices down maybe
there'll be more sales maybe they'll try
to you know clear out excess inventory
maybe they'll try to you know create
incentives for people to come in but in
general it is unlikely because we have a
devaluation of the currency at the same
time note that when there is a recession
when there is a big one that they're
willing to admit and there's some sort
of problem that's existing well we're
going to see a response a policy
response from the Federal Reserve and of
course
from your friends in the government what
are people doing well central banks are
doing it not the FED not the Bank of
Canada but some central banks around the
world are buying gold people are buying
gold because they don't trust currencies
they don't like what's happening they
see the devaluation so gold demand hit
record highs in
20123 they don't want the US dollar as
well uh in some cases China they're just
saying hey look we don't want the dollar
for multiple reasons maybe it's
countries are sanctioned so they're
saying okay we can't deal with the
dollar other countries are saying look
if I want to do some business between
one or another country if I don't need
that dollar I won't pick up the dollar
I'd rather pick up gold it's
International the likelihood of it
dropping you know significantly in value
in the next while probably not very
likely so all by that and there just
more and more and more and of course
there's consumption as well so all the
these things considered you could see
what's happening with gold that you know
should be much higher but this is where
we are anyway when you look at it in
terms
of the demand for it physical not not
the price not the price because the
price is paper stuff but the physical
demand it it's really there each and
every single day there is always talk
about shortages and not enough
production and people paying significant
premiums and all these
things look if you want to know what's
going on you want the depths of all of
this join me on my live classes I got
inquiries about this every single day
I've got people all around the world
that are part of these groups it's a
small group and we just have such a
great time together if you can't make
the live classes I do have people that
watch them the recordings that we do it
stays within the small group it's not
going out you know it's just for us and
and this is something that you could do
no matter where you are no matter your
circumstances you could submit your
questions or comments beforehand and I
could talk to you about it on there as
we go through this it's all over Zoom I
want you to join that link is in the
description check it out contact me
click on that and don't forget to hit
that thumbs up button when you do your
supporting this channel so I want to
thank you for that and of course I'll
see you tomorrow take care